---
title: Extensions
---

## Overview

Extensions are used to capture information necesary for the processing/mutation of tournament data while a tournamnet is in process, and to capture calculated results, for instance Round Robin group finishing positions, which are not defined in TODS. Extensions capture configuration parameters as part of the tournament "time capsule" to ensure that what happened during a tournament can be reconstructed.

Extensions can exist on any attribute within a TODS `tournamentRecord`. Each extension has `{ name, value }` attributes and there should never be more than one extension with a given name in an `.extensions` array.

### APPLIED_POLICIES

Regularly attached to `tournamentRecords`, `events` and `drawDefinitions`; can also be attached to `structures`. Many factory methods will check for policies which are "in scope", meaning within the object hierarchy. Policies can be attached at any time programmatically; they are attached automatically to `drawDefinitions` if any `policyDefinitions` are passed to `generateDrawDefinition()`.

### DELEGATED_OUTCOME

Used to capture `matchUp` outcomes which are not "official", meaning they may have been sourced from a third party application for the purposes of display prior to the entry of an official result.

### DISABLED

The presence of this extension indicates that a resource (`court` or `venue`) has been disabled such that scheduling methods cannot use the resource.

### DISABLE_LINKS

In certain conditions, when allowed by positioning policies, participants may have their drawPositions swapped in non-MAIN structures. When this occurs the normal logic of participant progression is broken and links must be disabled to avoid data corruption.

### DISABLE_AUTO_CALC

When manual scoring is enabled for TEAM `matchUps`, the automatic calculation of TEAM results is disabled by the presence of this extension.

### DISPLAY

Specific to client applications. Storage of display preferences for e.g. an `event`, a `drawDefinition`, or a `structure`.

### DRAW_DELETIONS

When no external auditing service is available, `drawDefinitions` which are deleted can be stored on the `tournamentRecord`.

### ENTRY_PROFILE

Stores limitations set on the number of accepted entries for an `event`; can include number of qualifiers, number of allowed wildcards, and maximum drawSize

### FACTORY

Used to capture version of factory that created/mutated the `tournamentRecord`.

### FLIGHT_PROFILE

Captures flight names and draw entries when `event` entries are split into multiple flights before `drawDefinitions` are generated.

### GROUPING_ATTRIBUTE

Stores the `person` or `participant` attribute that was used to generate TEAM `participants`.

### LINEUPS

Stores the most recent `lineUp` for each TEAM progressing through a `structure`; enables default assignments to be presented in hydrated SINGLES/DOUBLES `tieMatchUps` prior to actual `lineUps` being saved to TEAM `matchUps`.

### LINKED_TOURNAMENTS

When two or more tournaments are being run using shared `venues` the association between the tournaments is captured in this extension so that client applications can know to load multiple `tournamentRecords` when scheduling.

### MATCHUP_HISTORY

Captures point-by-point score progression in a condensed format that can later be expanded to full TODS.

### PARTICIPANT_REPRESENTATIVES

Stores a record of participant representatives present as witnesses during the making of a draw (old school, when manually drawing positions out of a 'hat').

### PERSON_REQUESTS

Captures scheduling requests. Consumed by the scheduler to attempt to accommodate participants; can be used to simply capture and display scheduling requests.

### POSITION_ACTIONS

When no external auditing service is available, `positionAction` telemetry can be stored on the `tournamentRecord`.

### RANKING_POINTS

Add the ability to capture points generated by `event` outcomes to `tournamentRecords` for the purpose of displaying points awarded in real time as `participants` advance through draw `structures`.

### ROUND_TARGET

Supports the generation of qualifying structures which feed in to different rounds of MAIN stage structures; also used to annotate `event.entries` to specify rounds at which a participant will enter a "staggered entry" structure.

### SCHEDULE_LIMITS

Stores `matchUp` "daily limits"; overrides any policies that may be attached.

### SCHEDULE_TIMING

Stores `matchUpFormat` timing; overrides any policies that may be attached.

### SCHEDULING_PROFILE

A `schuedulingProfile` is used to run the Auto Scheduler. This extension allows for the iterative editing of a scheduling profile before the Auto Scheduler is run.

### STATUS_DETAIL

Not used by the factory. Third party extension for annotating the entry status of participants.

### SUB_ORDER

When there are ties in calculating of Round Robin `groupOrder`, the SUB_ORDER extension can be added to capture a manual determination of the order for tied positions.

### TALLY

Stores calcualated `participantResults` on `positionAssignments` for a `structure`. Used to determine `groupOrder` in Round Robin structures.

### TIE_FORMAT_MODIFICATIONS

When no external auditing service is available, modifications to `tieFormats` during the course of an event can be captured on the `tournamentRecord`.
